# How to Write a Job Ad - Human Workplace

  * [Facebook](http://facebook.com/humanworkplace)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/humanworkplace)
  * [Linkedin](http://www.linkedin.com/company/human-workplace)
  * [Gplus](https://plus.google.com/117486689927290860362)
  * [Member Login](http://www.humanworkplace.com/membership-login/)
  * [Members Area](http://www.humanworkplace.com/members-only/)
  * [Become a Member](/membership-comparison-2/)
    * [Friend](/index.php?/register/ANTZ45)
    * [Individual](/products/individual-membership)

**![Human Workplace](http://www.humanworkplace.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/New-Logo-300x114.jpg)**

  * [Home](http://www.humanworkplace.com/)
  * [About Us](/what-is-the-human-workplace)
    * [Our Team](/whos-we)
    * [Human Workplace Live & Virtual Presentations](http://www.humanworkplace.com/human-workplace-live-virtual-presentations/)
    * [Terms & Conditions](http://www.humanworkplace.com/terms-conditions/)
  * [Blog!](http://www.humanworkplace.com/blog-2/reinventing-work-for-people/)
  * [Partners](http://www.humanworkplace.com/partners/)
  * Shop
    * [Burning Issue Q & A Service](http://www.humanworkplace.com/product-cat/burning-issue/)
    * [Congratulations Class of 2015! Special Packages](http://www.humanworkplace.com/product-cat/congratulations-class-of-2015-special-packages/)
    * [Downloadable Catalogs](http://www.humanworkplace.com/product-cat/downloadable-catalogs/)
    * [Downloadable eBooks](http://www.humanworkplace.com/product-cat/ebooks/)
    * [Four-Week Virtual Courses](http://www.humanworkplace.com/product-cat/four-week-virtual-courses/)
    * [HW for Employers](http://www.humanworkplace.com/product-cat/hw-for-employers/)
    * Human Workplace Toolkits
      * [NEW! HW Toolkit: When the Headhunter Calls](http://www.humanworkplace.com/product-cat/human-workplace-toolkit-when-the-headhunter-calls/)
        * [Human Workplace MEGA Toolkit: When the Headhunter Calls COMPLETE TOOLKIT WITH EXTRAS](http://www.humanworkplace.com/products/human-workplace-toolkit-headhunter-calls-complete-toolkit/)
        * [Human Workplace Toolkit: When the Headhunter Calls SCRIPT](http://www.humanworkplace.com/products/human-workplace-toolkit-headhunter-calls-script/)
        * [Human Workplace Toolkit: When the Headhunter Calls SAMPLE COMMUNICATIONS](http://www.humanworkplace.com/products/human-workplace-toolkit-headhunter-calls-sample-communications/)
        * [Human Workplace Toolkit: When the Headhunter Calls ROADMAP](http://www.humanworkplace.com/products/human-workplace-toolkit-headhunter-calls-roadmap/)
        * [Human Workplace Toolkit: When the Headhunter Calls ACTION PLANNER](http://www.humanworkplace.com/products/human-workplace-toolkit-headhunter-calls-action-planner/)
        * [Human Workplace Toolkit: When the Headhunter Calls IF X, THEN Y CHART](http://www.humanworkplace.com/products/human-workplace-toolkit-headhunter-calls-x-y-chart/)
        * [Human Workplace Toolkit: When the Headhunter Calls PROCESS FLOW](http://www.humanworkplace.com/products/human-workplace-toolkit-headhunter-calls-process-flow/)
        * [Human Workplace Tool: When the Headhunter Calls WORKSHEET](http://www.humanworkplace.com/products/human-workplace-tool-headhunter-calls-worksheet/)
        * [Human Workplace Tool: When the Headhunter Calls CHECKLIST](http://www.humanworkplace.com/products/human-workplace-tool-headhunter-calls-checklist/)
        * [Human Workplace Tool: When the Headhunter Calls 25 TIPS](http://www.humanworkplace.com/products/human-workplace-tool-25-tips-headhunter-calls/)
        * [Human Workplace Tool: When the Headhunter Calls Q & A](http://www.humanworkplace.com/products/hw-tool-headhunter-calls-q/)
        * [Human Workplace Tool: When the Headhunter Calls CHEAT SHEET](http://www.humanworkplace.com/products/hw-tool-headhunter-calls-cheet-sheet/)
    * [Individual Membership](http://www.humanworkplace.com/products/individual-membership/)
    * [Premium Career Guidance](http://www.humanworkplace.com/product-cat/premium-career-guidance/)
    * [12-Week Virtual Courses](http://www.humanworkplace.com/product-cat/online-courses/)
    * [Mid-Summer MOJO Sale](http://www.humanworkplace.com/product-cat/mid-summer-mojo-sale/)
  * [Contact](http://www.humanworkplace.com/contact-human-workplace/)
  * [Search](?s=)

**[Blog](http://www.humanworkplace.com/blog-2/)**

You are here: [Home](http://www.humanworkplace.com) /
[Blog](http://www.humanworkplace.com/blog-2/) / [career
advice](http://www.humanworkplace.com/category/career-advice/) / [Human
workplace](http://www.humanworkplace.com/category/career-advice/human-
workplace/) / How to Write a Job Ad

![Downloadable E-Book: Pegging, Broaching and Negotiating
Salary](http://www.humanworkplace.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Grow-your-
flame-with-us-Liz-Ryan-Live-images-710x270.jpg)

# [How to Write a Job Ad ](http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-ad/)

September 19, 2014/[9 Comments](http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-
ad/#comments)/in [Human workplace](http://www.humanworkplace.com/category
/career-advice/human-workplace/) /by [Liz
Ryan](http://www.humanworkplace.com/author/liz-2/)

You can write a job ad that doesn’t sound like a robot or a zombie wrote it.
You can put a human voice in your job ads, and you’ll get a much better
response when you do! Start by telling us about the organization. Don’t use
boring business boilerplate language like “We are a leading software firm.”
That isn’t going to make anyone’s heart beat faster. Tell us the story of your
organization, and why anyone would want to work there.

Next, tell us about the role that’s available. Why is the job open? Where did
the job come from – how did the need emerge? We want to know the details. That
makes the job more interesting to candidates. We need to know **why** to apply
more than **how** to apply! You are competing with every other employer in
your area. You have to entice candidates, or they’ll skip your job ad and go
to the next one.

Here’s a sample job ad. Notice that our job ad is written in the voice of one
person — the hiring manager. Do you think the hiring manager, Allan, is taking
a chance by putting his name and email address in the ad? Allan isn’t worried
about that, because it’s going to be very easy for Allan to screen the
responses he receives. He’s going to be able to make a very quick decision as
he looks at each response for a minute or two.

That’s because Allan included a Logical Gate in the job ad. We teach managers
and HR folks how to write job ads, including Logical Gates, in our programs.
The Logical Gate makes it very easy for Allan to screen the responses to his
job ad. He can tell right away how well each candidate understands his need —
the reason he’s looking to hire someone — just by reading the candidate’s
response to Allan’s job ad.

**OPERATIONS MANAGER: YOUR EXPERTISE IS NEEDED! **

_Our company, Acme Explosives, was founded in 1943 by our CEO’s grandfather.
We’re a $50M company now and the largest stick-dynamite maker in the USA.
We’re growing, and we’ve created an Operations Manager position reporting to
me, the Director of Operations, Allan Smith._

_I look after Operations, Purchasing, Production and Inventory Control, and in
this role you’ll work closely with the managers of all those departments along
with the whole crew at Acme._ _You’ll be responsible for our facilities (a
30,000 sf office and 200,000 sf manufacturing/warehouse facility on the same
campus) and for Safety and Security for our organization._

_You’ll work closely with our HR team on employee safety and security issues
and make sure that our facility is safe, comfortable, energy-efficient and
operationally in shape to power our growth._ _The challenge in this job will
be keeping our Operations functions up to speed with of our growth and keeping
up with the constant changes in this growing business. The reward will be the
ability to run your own Operations shop, working with sharp, ethical and
dedicated people who believe in our company, our opportunity and one another._

_The compensation range for this role is $85-$90K._ _If you’re interested in
learning more, please write to me at allansmith@acmeexplosives.com with a
300-word reply. In your letter, let me know why this job is a great fit for
you, not only in terms of your qualifications  but also by answering the
question “How will this opportunity advance your career?” Lastly, in your
letter tell me what you’d view as the major areas of priority for you in this
job and where you’d expect to find issues that we need to jump on immediately.
Thanks for reading, and enjoy your day!_ What did you notice about Allan’s job
ad?

  * There aren’t any Requirements or Essential Qualifications. How would Allan know the exact background that his perfect candidate will have? He doesn’t know. His new hire could come from any number of different backgrounds. The new Operations Manager could have a military or law-enforcement background. He or she could have a facilities background or a safety background. The right person will emerge from the group of folks who respond to Allan’s ad. He isn’t going to create artificial obstacles for himself by specifying the requirements the new hire must have!
  * There isn’t any stupid boring corporatespeak language. Allan talks directly to the person reading the ad, one person at a time, the same way we teach job-seekers to write directly to hiring managers in their [Pain Letters.](http://www.humanworkplace.com/whats-pain-letter/)
  * Allan includes a Logical Gate in his job ad. He asks interested candidates to send him a 300-word reply, and he tells them what should be in the reply. The best candidates are going to be obvious immediately when Allan reads the replies. Most candidates, sadly, will ignore the Logical Gate requirement and send a standard resume (with or without cover letter) to Allan in their haste to respond to the ad. Those people will get polite No Thanks letters.

Want to learn how to put a human voice in your job ads and follow the
Recruiting with a Human Voice approach? [Contact us here to learn
more!](http://www.humanworkplace.com/contact-human-workplace/)

##### Share this entry

  * [Share on Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-ad/&t=How%20to%20Write%20a%20Job%20Ad)
  * [Share on Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=How%20to%20Write%20a%20Job%20Ad&url=http://www.humanworkplace.com/?p=6974)
  * [Share on Google+](https://plus.google.com/share?url=http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-ad/)
  * [Share on Pinterest](http://pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.humanworkplace.com%2Fwrite-job-ad%2F&description=How%20to%20Write%20a%20Job%20Ad&media=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.humanworkplace.com%2Fwp-content%2Fuploads%2F2014%2F05%2FGrow-your-flame-with-us-Liz-Ryan-Live-images.jpg)
  * [Share on Linkedin](http://linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&title=How%20to%20Write%20a%20Job%20Ad&url=http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-ad/)
  * [Share on Tumblr](http://www.tumblr.com/share/link?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.humanworkplace.com%2Fwrite-job-ad%2F&name=How%20to%20Write%20a%20Job%20Ad&description=You%20can%20write%20a%20job%20ad%20that%20doesn%E2%80%99t%20sound%20like%20a%20robot%20or%20a%20zombie%20wrote%20it.%20You%20can%20put%20a%20human%20voice%20in%20your%20job%20ads%2C%20and%20you%E2%80%99ll%20get%20a%20much%20better%20response%20when%20you%20do%21%20Start%20by%20telling%20us%20about%20the%20organization.%20Don%E2%80%99t%20use%20boring%20business%20boilerplate%20language%20like%20%E2%80%9CWe%20are%20a%20leading%20%5B%E2%80%A6%5D)
  * [Share on Vk](http://vk.com/share.php?url=http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-ad/)
  * [Share on Reddit](http://reddit.com/submit?url=http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-ad/&title=How%20to%20Write%20a%20Job%20Ad)
  * <span class="avia_hidden_link_text">Share by Mail</span> (?subject=How%20to%20Write%20a%20Job%20Ad&body=http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-ad/ at )

9 replies

  1. ![Alex Hamilton](http://0.gravatar.com/avatar/f4ff4c12ce23c5e0dce47bd74724a642?s=60&d=mm&r=g)

Alex Hamilton says:

[September 20, 2014 at 7:21 am](http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-
ad/#comment-34514)

Excellent article! It’s a much better way to assess the capabilities of the
candidate and get out of the ‘black hole.’

[Reply](/write-job-ad/?replytocom=34514#respond)

  2. ![vinodh](http://2.gravatar.com/avatar/87bfe4e3768fea42943a56da35f24294?s=60&d=mm&r=g)

[vinodh](http://www.programmervinodhsen.com) says:

[September 21, 2014 at 12:28 am](http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-
ad/#comment-34583)

I learnt something new. but is it that simple?(writing job ad)

[Reply](/write-job-ad/?replytocom=34583#respond)

  3. ![MicheleElys](http://0.gravatar.com/avatar/0f44ff28e4cdf2d274fe9fcdb4a4d62c?s=60&d=mm&r=g)

[MicheleElys](http://about.me/micheleelys) says:

[September 22, 2014 at 5:14 pm](http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-
ad/#comment-34783)

BRAVO! Great example. Next step, sending it out to all 11 hospital
conglomerates, Oil & Gas firms, IT, etc. :~) I am sure they are onboard by
now!  
Cheers MicheleElys

[Reply](/write-job-ad/?replytocom=34783#respond)

  4. ![Lydia Mpanga Sebuyira](http://1.gravatar.com/avatar/72481c045430cda664264ea8ca6a555d?s=60&d=mm&r=g)

[Lydia Mpanga Sebuyira](http://www.imprintltd.com) says:

[August 26, 2015 at 2:41 am](http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-
ad/#comment-167115)

Thank you for this excellent article! Now I am going to try it out as I
recruit a team of executive coaches…

[Reply](/write-job-ad/?replytocom=167115#respond)

  5. ![Tony C.](http://1.gravatar.com/avatar/a7e98ab18da1c9f3cac3d8d9198b0844?s=60&d=mm&r=g)

Tony C. says:

[August 26, 2015 at 7:02 am](http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-
ad/#comment-167171)

Very good article. People want to be treated like people.

[Reply](/write-job-ad/?replytocom=167171#respond)

  6. ![Gordon Conolly](http://1.gravatar.com/avatar/1b3bd4ff69b9c7a235d367cb19997d42?s=60&d=mm&r=g)

Gordon Conolly says:

[August 26, 2015 at 12:33 pm](http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-
ad/#comment-167215)

Wonderful advice – thank you. .I couldn’t agree more – Recruiters and HR take
note.. so refreshing. BUT requires much discipline.

[Reply](/write-job-ad/?replytocom=167215#respond)

  7. ![James Childers](http://2.gravatar.com/avatar/b57e1aea796a441eb52386349e5a00e3?s=60&d=mm&r=g)

James Childers says:

[August 26, 2015 at 3:19 pm](http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-
ad/#comment-167255)

Where do I apply? This is great and I have been searching for a new job for
approx. a year and have not seen a single ad such as this. I want to work for
them!

[Reply](/write-job-ad/?replytocom=167255#respond)

  8. ![Zach](http://0.gravatar.com/avatar/07e4719697c385d7f5cce2ef5939a9b8?s=60&d=mm&r=g)

[Zach](http://consumersenergy.com) says:

[August 27, 2015 at 9:57 am](http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-
ad/#comment-167482)

Question: I like the ad, however we are an OFCCP federal contractor and have
specifications given to us on what language (essential functions) to include
in our job postings. How can we include your ad style and still be compliant?

[Reply](/write-job-ad/?replytocom=167482#respond)

    * ![Liz Ryan](http://0.gravatar.com/avatar/6c1e204e6c3ddbaea9d543d3e4e2bfec?s=60&d=mm&r=g)

Liz Ryan says:

[August 27, 2015 at 11:08 am](http://www.humanworkplace.com/write-job-
ad/#comment-167500)

Hi Zach,

Thanks for your question! [Here’s the page on our
site](http://www.humanworkplace.com/faq-get-human-workplace-advice-on-your-
career-situation/) where you can explore the various ways to get our advice on
your HR and recruiting issues. Thanks!  
Michael [(you can reach me here)](http://www.humanworkplace.com/contact-human-
workplace/)

[Reply](/write-job-ad/?replytocom=167500#respond)

### Leave a Reply

Want to join the discussion?  
Feel free to contribute!

### Leave a Reply [Cancel reply](/write-job-ad/#respond)

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Name *

Email *

Website

Comment

You may use these HTML tags and attributes: `<a href="" title=""> <abbr
title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del
datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <s> <strike> <strong> `

### Subscribe for blog updates via email!

Email Address

### Popular Links

  * [Start Here](http://www.humanworkplace.com/start/)
  * [What’s New?](http://www.humanworkplace.com/whats-new/)
  * [Watch, Read and Listen](http://www.humanworkplace.com/watch-read-listen/)
  * [Partner with Us](http://www.humanworkplace.com/partner-us/)
  * [Career Guidance](http://www.humanworkplace.com/career-guidance/)
  * [Fan Mail](http://www.humanworkplace.com/fan-mail/)

### Products Spotlight

  * [Membership Comparison](http://www.humanworkplace.com/membership-comparison-2/)
  * [Virtual Coaching Groups](http://www.humanworkplace.com/virtual-coaching-groups/)
  * [Burning Issue Email Q & A Coaching Program](http://www.humanworkplace.com/products/burning-issue/)

### Upcoming Events

There are no upcoming events.

[View Calendar __](http://www.humanworkplace.com/calendar-2/)

### The Human Workplace Whole Person Job Search

![take-a-big-step-up-in-2015_1-300x238](http://www.humanworkplace.com/wp-
content/uploads/2015/03/take-a-big-step-up-in-2015_1-300x238-300x238.jpg)

![Catalogue Download Button](http://www.humanworkplace.com/wp-
content/uploads/2013/05/btn491486131.png)

### Follow us on Twitter

[Tweets by @humanworkplace](https://twitter.com/humanworkplace)

### Let’s Get Social

© 2015 Human Workplace - [Terms and Conditions](/terms-conditions/) \- [Enfold
Child WordPress Theme by Kriesi](http://www.kriesi.at)

[ If Your Resume Sounds Robotic, Here’s Help! ![Finding and Landing Your Dream
Job](http://www.humanworkplace.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/bring-yourself-
to-work-2-150x150.jpg) ](http://www.humanworkplace.com/resume-sounds-robotic-
heres-help/)[ ![Career MOJO Club: One Year Membership Special
Offer!](http://www.humanworkplace.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/How-to-grow-
your-flame-badge-Liz-Ryan-Live-images-80x80.jpg) Your Current Job Is Your Best
Platform For Your Next Job ](http://www.humanworkplace.com/current-job-best-
platform-next/)

Powered by WishList Member - [Membership
Software](http://member.wishlistproducts.com/)

Scroll to top

